Jill Jones talking to Shirley Davis, continuation. So Shirley, when the Minera limestone quarry
closed, can you tell me a little bit about what happened next there?
Yes, it was closed for quite some time and there were a number of us in the village who
were quite concerned about what was going to happen in the limeworks, what the future
of it was going to be, because it was an area where many of us did walk, but it was becoming
very overgrown, we were finding it more and more difficult to get in and out of there.
And we heard via my husband actually, who was on the council at the time, that it was up for sale.
And as a result of this, a few of us got together, we got together in the City Arms,
which was a pub that was open at the time, and at that first meeting I was appointed as the chair
of a new group which was looking into what we could do about the quarry, about the limeworks.
We then went for a brainstorming session, which was up in the cycle centre up in Llandegna,
and we formed a committee, and from that committee we then decided that we were going to do our level
best to get it for the people of the community, for the community of Monera, for them to have it
as a facility for the whole area. Yes, as an outdoor general access.
Many of the meetings went on in my house. Yes, yes. It was open house. We continued to meet,
we struggled, we really, really struggled very hard trying to get people to listen to us,
and to agree to us doing, you know, having something done with it. Yes. And it was only
eventually when we managed to get the North Wales Wildlife Trust on board with us that we were able
to secure it for the people of the community and make it a facility rather than what was becoming
nice or a problem. Yes. So we, I then stepped down from being the chairperson, and it was taken,
I've been a couple of chairmen after that. Yes. But I'm quite pleased to say that as a result of
the efforts that the group made, it wasn't just me, but the group. The committee was really good
and hard working. Absolutely. Yes. And met on a regular basis and we managed eventually to
get the Wildlife Trust on board and with their help and what have you. Yes. It's now a good.
It is. It's a good local facility. Yes. And hopefully it's going to go on and be an even
better facility in the future. I think it's got such possibilities. It's such a brilliant area
and it's such a large area. Yes. That we could do all sorts of things there. I've still got lots of
ideas of things that could be done. But we've met a lot of people, we've had a lot of important
people that have come up and looked at the area. Yes. Yes. And have all said, you know,
what a wonderful area it is and what a wonderful thing that we should do, that we were doing to
actually try and save it for the community. Because there's the industrial. Archaeology.
And there's the general wildlife anyway and there's
the nearness for the community. Yes. And even if they don't walk the mile and a half to get there,
so we need car parking space there. They're still, they don't know how many miles they walk
once they're in. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yes. Yes. They, you know, it's a place of entertainment.
It's a place of learning. Yes. It's a place of education. It's a place of
leisure. Yes. People just go there leisurely. They walk their dogs. They do all sorts of things
within it. And I think that we've managed to do something really worthwhile in ensuring that it's
going to be the captain, hopefully, for many, many years to come. Yes. It will be used by the
community. Yes. With local open access for everyone. Yes. I do meet people now when I'm up there.
I do find that some of them now, we do have Welsh speaking people going up there quite often.
Going back years ago, most of the people that were up there were Welsh speakers. Yes. Most of
the quarry workers would have been speaking Welsh, singing Welsh on their way back. They would be.
Yes. But now, for a long time, it's been a lot of English speaking people and now it seems to be
going full circle. And we seem to be having a lot of Welsh people up there and, you know, taking
more notice. We do have lots of foreign people coming as well. Yes, we do. Yes. Yeah. So,
I don't know if I can extend that. So, thank you very much, Shirley. You're very welcome. Very
enjoyable to talk to you today and for you to come and meet us. Thank you.